# 2025 01 30: Official OSM BE members meeting

## Participants

<https://openstreetmap.be/en/members.html>

### Will participate

âœ…Thierry, âœ…Joost, âœ…Jonathan, âœ…Erik, âœ…Julien, âŒBen, âœ…Pieter VDC, âœ…Thibault, âœ…Luna, âœ…Marjan, âœ…Johan, âœ…Michael, âœ…Kevin, âœ…Kurt

### Apologies

Maarten

### Power of attorney

Pieter VDV (â†’ Joost), Pierre (â†’ Julien)

### Non-voting members

âœ…Ruben

**Quorum ([rules](https://github.com/osmbe/working-group-bylaws/blob/master/CONSTITUTION.md))**

* 33 members, of which 32 have voting rights
* 8 members need to be present for quorum
* present: 13 + 2 PoA

## Location (online)

[meeting-link](https://osmvideo.cloud68.co/user/joo-ua3-evt)

## Official Agenda

1) Approval of [previous report](https://github.com/osmbe/working-group-bylaws/blob/master/minutes/2024-03-11%20-%20official%20meeting.md)
    > **âœ… No comments, approved (via chat)**
2) Approval of "jaarrekening/comptes annuels" and the budget of 2025
      a) new [volunteer fee policy](https://hackmd.io/h6k_bcXeQRKeT-KxnCLl3w?view)
      b) marketing consultancy
    Links:
    * [financials](https://onedrive.live.com/?id=D69B4156677C6F43%21206933&cid=D69B4156677C6F43) (internal)
    * [corporate members](https://github.com/osmbe/working-group-bylaws/blob/master/corporate-members/README.md)

   > **âœ… No comments, approved (via chat)**
   > **âœ… Changes applied to budget 2025, approved (via chat)**

    **Overview 2024 financials:**

    Category | IN | OUT
    -- | -- | --
    corporate membership | 8500 | Â 
    paid mapping | 2209 | Â 
    admin | Â  | 301
    BE camera grant project | Â  | 155
    EU camera grant project | Â  | 743
    hosting | Â  | 1151
    marketing operational | Â  | 143
    marketing project | Â  | 2831
    social meetings | Â  | 509
    volunteer fee - meetings | Â  | 124
    TOTAL | 10709 | 5957

    SUMMARY | Â amount
    -- | --
    historical budget | 12005
    SotM overflow | 15044
    to Poland SotM EU | -15044
    income 2024 | 10709
    spending 2024 | -5957
    balance | 4751
    budget 1/1/2025 | 16757

    **Non financial donations:**

    * 3 cameras from Meta as payment for the work and cost of the EU camera grant
    * stand at Digitaal Vlaanderen Trefdag (Anyways)
    * twice a year update of OSM.be tiles (Champs Libres)

    **Non-financial assets:**

    * 7 GoPro and accessories in Belgium
    * 20 GoPro and accessories in Belgium

    **Proposed budget 2025:**

    Category | IN | OUT | COMMENTS
    -- | -- | -- | --
    corporate membership | 8500 | Â  |
    paid mapping | 0 | Â  | Â cycle highways (Flemish provinces) unlikely to be continued
    admin | Â  | 350 | Â membership fee VSDC, banking costs, ...
    BE camera grant project | Â  | 400 |
    hosting | Â  | 1500 |
    marketing operational | Â  | 200 | Â representation costs, leaflets, ...
    marketing project | Â  | 1500 | can we continue with paid work? for what?
    social meetings | Â  | 750 | Â maybe an OSM weekend?
    volunteer fee - meetings | Â  | 1500 | members only (see the policy)
    microgrants (if we find a lead) | Â  | 3500 | e.g. 2 projects of 1500 max, with room for more if good requests, or maybe building import tool or panoramax server costs
    TOTAL | 8500 | 9300 |

3) buildings.osm.be status: proposal to fund update
    * Just teach someone to update
    * or rebuild from scratch based on the existing logic? Or maybe pool resources with other chapters?

## Status updates

4) Lots of [meetings](https://hackmd.io/uuzaXsipTHKBEbGF5VZPPQ?view) of the past year
    * We do a lot of things but we don't communicate enough about it
    * We could use the newsletter to share it
    * We could also post a "summary report" of the meeting as blogpost on the website
    * If people are interested to have access to our social account, it's definitely possible
    * RouteYou is open to share some news from OSMBE in their newsletter (via Kevin)
5) Lili app
    * Led by Seppe
    * Navigating for the blind people (using/improving OSM)
6) GeoSpatial award (<https://flagis.be/>) won! :tada:
    * Application suggested by Ben
    * Presentation was improved using feedback from marketing campaign
    * We won the *Categorie Impact (lange termijn)* awards 
7) New Belgian tiles server: <https://tile.osm.be/>
    * Hosted by OSMBE
    * Tiles generated by Champs Libres (with infra support from Johan)
    * Some stability issue at the beginning but solved now
8) Update camera grant project
    * Coverage: ![img](https://i.imgur.com/xfwStcm.png)
    * [Tracking page](https://hackmd.io/xLSqK1uJSrO1b9Xdfm4Ykw?view)
9) Municipalia 2025 status
    * <https://municipalia.be/>
    * Julien & Pierre are preparing it
        * there is a topic here: https://community.openstreetmap.org/t/collaboration-osm-local-authorities-pouvoirs-locaux/121424
        * and a doc in preparation here: https://cyclone.champs-libres.be/s/BWdkcsxbK2j77jn
    * 2 days in April (17 & 18/04/2025)
    * @ [WEX](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/99245671), Marche-en-Famenne
    * Not only digital topics but all municipal government topics
    * Need more people to help and attend
    * 1h30 by train from Brussels-North to the nearest station 'Marloie'
       AND 30 min by bike
10) OSM bbq/weekend 2025?
11) [Marketing](https://hackmd.io/0J_sDSBOQxqnxfOfu3CRyA?view) impact?
    * Need to communicate more (blogpost on the website, social medias, newsletter, ...)
    * Help with the newsletter would be great
12) Next board elections by the end of the year
    * Current board: Joost, Thierry, Jonathan
    * 3 seats in the board
    * Every member is welcome to join the board

## Members added topics

13) Jonathan: Presentation of the new osm.be website
    * Temporary URL: <https://jbelien.github.io/osmbe-website/>
    * Feedback is needed
    * Will be published somewhere in February when we're happy with it
    * Content of the homepage could be "refreshed"
14) Pierre: too many channels, hard to access for some
    * Provide Matrix help?
15) Ruben: railway channel? ðŸš‚
    * https://app.element.io/#/room/!liqCaQxXDLiCFcTJTc:matrix.org (but private? Ruben: I can't see this indeed)
    * I meant more like where we can nerd out about trains and mapping them
    * There is already a (private) channel with SNCB/NMBS with an employee of SNCB/NMBS ; channel could be made public
16) s8evq: Start digital mapathon idea
    * Work all together online on a specific topic

## Questions & Remarks

* Thierry does paid mapping but gives everything to OSM.be, **Julien wonders what the hourly rate is (see answer below)**
* Joost would like to hear ideas about something to do with RouteYou
* Costs for Municipalia are not yet clear but we're invited so we're not paying for the booth
* Marketing budget could be use to hire Cabinet Content to organise a marketing campaign
* OSM weekend/day:
  * Make sure to invite active non-members (to try to bring more people)
  * FOSS4G BE workshop day could also be used to meet people (but would be during the week)
  * Or communicate it more broadly but say you should become member to come
* There's also a desire for a more informational/formal event. In the past there were knowledge exchanges like this. For instance, share JOSM tips, ...
  * "Regular" meetup could also be used to focus on (a) specific topic(s)

---

What is hourly rate for paid mapping?
: 65.9571 EUR per hour (TVA not included). We used this rate for a one shot project (paid mapping cycle highways). In the future we might reconsider this rate.
